agent: restart template runner on retry for unlimited retries (#11775)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/agent/template-config.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Agent Template Config
description: |-
  Vault Agent's Template Config to set Templating Engine behavior
---

# Vault Agent Template Config

> Template Config allows users of Vault Agent to determine the behavior that
> pertains to the templating engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Template Config configures default behavior for [templates](/docs/agent/template).
```

Reviewer: Perhaps also worth adding a note and the reverse link from the template page?

Author: I referenced "templating engine" on purpose instead of `template` because the params within the `template` stanza defines the rendering behavior for templates themselves so I didn't want to confuse the two. The current wording might not be the best though, so still open to suggestions!

Reviewer 2: I'm reading the suggesting as adding something to `/docs/agent/template` referencing _this_ page. I can imagine being very confused when someone is supposed to "set xyz in the template config", and they're on the template docs page looking and a big section called "Configuration" and not finding it. It is still intrinsically confusing, IMO, but as least some extra guidance might route them to the right page.

Author: My reply was to Tom's commit suggestion and not on the reverse link. I thin it makes sense to add something to `/docs/agent/template` that references this page though so I'll get that updated!

Author: Ended up backlinking both ways. I realized how confusing it can be otherwise. Thanks for the suggestion Tom and Jim!

## Functionality

> The `template_config` stanza. Note that `template_config` can only be defined

Reviewer 3: > The `template_config` stanza.

Feels like this is missing some words.

Author: Whoops, will get this updated!

once, and is different from the `template` stanza. Unlike `template` which
focuses on where and how a specific secret is rendered, `template_config`
contains parameters affects how the templating engine as a whole behaves and its
interaction with the rest of Agent. This includes, but is not limited to,
program exit behavior. Other parameters that applies to the templating engine as
a whole may be added over time.

### Interaction with `error_on_missing_key`

> The parameter `error_on_missing_key` can be specified within the `template`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameter [`error_on_missing_key`](/docs/agent/template#error_on_missing_key) can be specified within the `template`
```

> stanza which determines if a template should ignore rendering a missing key
> within the response of a secret or error out. When `error_on_missing_key` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stanza which determines if a template should error when a key is missing
in the secret. When `error_on_missing_key` is
```

nit: Just trying to make this a little more succinct.

not specified or set to `false` and the key to render is not in the secret's
response, the templating engine will ignore it (or render `"<no value>"`)
and continue on with its rendering.

> If the desired is to have Agent fail and exit on a missing key, both

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the desire is to have Agent fail and exit on a missing key, both
```

`template.error_on_missing_key` and `template_config.exit_on_retry_failure` must
be set to true. Otherwise, the templating engine will error and render to its
destination, but agent will not exit and retry until it's able to do so or until
the process is terminated.

Note that a missing key from a secret's response is different from a missing or

> non-existent secret. The former's behavior can be toggled through
> `error_on_missing_key`, while the latter always results in an error returned by
> the templating engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
non-existent secret. The templating engine will always error if a secret is missing, but will only error for a missing key if `error_on_missing_key` is set. Whether Vault Agent will exit when the templating engine errors depends on the value of `exit_on_retry_failure`.
```

I had a quick go at reworking this because I found it a bit confusing. It sounded a bit like "always results in an error" means `exit_on_retry_failure` might be ignored in some cases.

Author: Yeah this note was meant purely for `error_on_missing_key` as there was some misunderstanding of how it worked for me in the past. I like how you tie it back to `exit_on_retry_failure` though, so I'll go ahead and accept your suggestion!

## Configuration

The top level `template_config` block has the following configuration entries:

> - `exit_on_retry_failure` `(bool: false)` - This option tells Vault Agent to create

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `exit_on_retry_failure` `(bool: false)` - This option configures Vault Agent to create
```

>   the parent directories of the destination path if they do not exist.

Reviewer: Looks like a copy-paste block that needs updating.

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Agent Template Config
description: |-
  Vault Agent's Template Config to set Templating Engine behavior
---

# Vault Agent Template Config

> Template Config allows users to determine the behavior that
> pertains to the templating engine within Vault Agent.

Reviewer: > I referenced "templating engine" on purpose instead of template because the params within the template stanza defines the rendering behavior for templates themselves so I didn't want to confuse the two.

Oops, yeah I definitely missed that distinction! It's a tricky one to communicate well, because it's kind of spilling over into explaining the internals of Vault Agent rather than just explaining the behavior. WDYT of this suggestion? Possibly too simplistic, but I think it's complemented very well by the paragraph after it.

```suggestion
Template Config configures Vault Agent behavior common to all `template` stanzas.
```

Reviewer: I've just noticed the "Functionality" section below as well, which goes into slightly more detail on the same subject. Perhaps worth merging these two sections together?

Author: This initial section is meant to be a 1-2 sentence general description of the feature. The functionality section goes a bit deeper into the details, and also has "Interactions with ..." sub-section.
